# Deliverance Star

Joshua Jung

Draft Edition

Copyright © 2025

# Preface

Grieving people drifted into the small sanctuary at the Kansas City mortuary, talking to their loved ones in hushed tones. Up front, an open casket held a young woman, considerable makeup hiding the gunshot wound that had taken her life. Kids and adults alike grappled to comprehend the horror of what had happened, and few in the room knew the long-term effects the murder would have on hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people. Nobody could have anticipated the unfolding story’s potential to reach tens of thousands of people. Even more importantly, few present – including me – were aware of what was occurring in the spiritual realm that weekend.

Only twelve years old, as I entered the room, I felt a new, heavy sensation. I interpreted this as deep spiritual tension. My Christian family and extended relatives were present, but so too was a group of black-leather-clad friends of Anastasia—the young woman in the casket. The eulogy was to be delivered my uncle Dan, who was well-known for running a local homeless ministry, the Kansas City Union Mission, and it could be safely assumed that the message of his eulogy would be related to the Christian faith. Clearly, based on their attitude and even some giggles and snickers, Anastasia’s friends were mustering as much of an air of defiance as they could. Everything felt off.

It was Halloween weekend of 1997 and this was the funeral for Anastasia Witbols-Feugen, my father’s cousin. I had no clue that what transpired would lead to what some still consider an unsolved murder. Despite the court later declaring a young man guilty, people still investigate Anastasia’s murder decades later. I have vivid memories of the few days surrounding that funeral, but one stands out more than any other.

My family chose a pew on the left side of the sanctuary, maybe six to eight rows from the back, and I sat down by myself while my parents and siblings finished their conversations. Wanting to be as respectful as possible, I quietly observed what was going on, soaking in every detail to answer the questions bombarding my brain. Was the murderer present? How did the morticians cover up the shotgun wound so neatly? I felt that the seriousness of this event was paramount. At this point, my Christian faith was new, having been baptized only a few months before, but I struggled to interpret the cold heaviness on my soul. There must be more going on behind the scenes spiritually.

Surveying the crowd of mourners, my attention was captured by one man, who was surrounded by several seductively dressed women in their teens. Odd attire for a funeral! He seemed old to me, even though he must have been no older than twenty. Based on what I observed, he was clearly a leader among a group of Anastasia’s friends. He seemed to be smiling an awful lot for a funeral, and the young women were giving him a lot of attention. Something about that group rubbed me the wrong way. I remember a couple of the girls giggling in response to seeing the casket. But this man above all had a dark air about him. He was four or five pews in front of me, facing the front of the sanctuary. As I stared at the back of his head, I had the very distinct thought run through my head, That man is very evil. 

Immediately and without hesitation, he turned around and glared straight into my eyes, shrugged his shoulders, and mouthed the word What?

Startled, I turned around to see who he was looking at—I did not believe that he was looking at me. But there was nobody between me and the back of the sanctuary who was even remotely looking his way. I turned back to him, and he caught my eyes for a second time, shrugged, and mouthed the word What? Then, he lightly smiled and turned to face the front of the sanctuary, while I shrunk terrified into the pew.


# Chapter 1 - What Is This Book?

In the past few years, despite secularism being quite strong in the west, curiosity about spiritual beings and extraterrestrial life has risen. Many of us have had profound and undeniable experiences and are left with no choice but to accept that—at the very least—the theory that humans are floating alone on a planet in a vast, empty universe does not fit the data. And yet, the data is often sparse, blurry, and subjective. Therefore, evidence of non-terrestrial life rarely satisfies any scientific testing.
Yet a belief that we are not alone in the universe has been the default position of humans for most of history. Cultures worldwide have ancient stories of non-terrestrial beings visiting them long ago and giving them wisdom or a basic jump-start kit on how to live. The names given to these beings may vary, but the stories of their impact—whether fictional or real—ripple through nearly every culture. Media regularly references stories of ancient gods or reimagines our lives if we were not alone in the universe. A part of humanity craves the idea that we are not alone.

But ancient stories often contain language barriers that hinder clear interpretation. The Hebrew language uses the word mal’akh (מַלְאָךְ), which means “messenger,” to describe these beings. Our modern English equivalent is the word angel, which usually conjures images of white beings in wings. But the word mal’akh does not indicate the species of being bringing the message. A human, an alien, or a spiritual being from God’s throne room could all be called “angels” if they are bringing a message. Likewise, many ancient visions using descriptive words like “throne”, “torch”, “eye”, “wing”, or “sword” that might have been chosen because they were the closest words available in their language for what they were seeing. Maybe what they saw would be described quite differently using our much larger vocabulary or perhaps what they were seeing was what something else wanted them to see because it was what they could comprehend! Because of linguistic barriers and the fuzzy and terse descriptions of these beings in ancient texts, it is incredibly difficult to sort out which parts of their reports are intended to be taken literally. This entire topic is often so muddied even among academics that it is just easier to interpret all the stories as myth.

In some cases, these ancient stories are fiction. For example, in the poems of the Iliad and the Odyssey, the ancient Greek writer Homer [^1]  spins tales of gods and their interactions with mankind. These stories are fictitious, but over time even fiction can morph into myth and then, with some religious pressure, be proposed as reality. Over time, the way people communicate claims of truth to each other leaves lots of room for error and centuries later it becomes nearly impossible to distinguish myth from fact.

[1]:Homer’s authorship has been disputed but is generally accepted. This is yet another example of how difficult it can be to distinguish fact from myth centuries later.[/1]

For all recorded history, intellectual battles have raged between faithful believers and skeptics and agnostics across every area of religious thought. The endless barrage of arguments about faith claims can cause mental fatigue and a general skepticism toward any supernatural stories. Millions of paranormal and supernatural stories can be found on the internet, exacerbating the fatigue. As a software engineer, the default posture among my tech-driven generation was an assumption that if something cannot be proven in a lab then it probably can be dismissed.

By my thirties, I considered myself a well-studied atheist who spent considerable time keeping up on the latest scientific discoveries. I checked the latest science news daily and regularly read white papers to keep my mind fresh. Most things in life had a trivial explanation to me. Evolutionary biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics, anthropology, psychology and similar fields made sense of nearly everything in the world—including paranormal and religious experiences.

\Even subjective conscious experiences like beauty, pleasure, and love were entirely natural to me. These sensations were natural outcomes of living creatures experiencing less anxiety and more happiness in the presence of a healthy and safe environment. As biology and physics predict, all life will pursue an environment that maximizes its self-preservation and health, and good feelings are chemical and electrical signals when a part of the environment meets that criteria. Family values and the safety of a religious environment are predictable and natural as well. Organized religions and cults are simply sets of beliefs that feel good by promising a safer environment for resource acquisition and human reproduction.

Unfortunately, every part of nature can contain deception, and the promises made by religions and cults are sometimes unhealthy, unsafe, and downright false. Humans, like every other organism, can be mistaken or deceived by our senses. Like having an allergy or an auto-immune disorder, people sometimes overreact to perceived threats. As a result, we humans form paranoid and delusional beliefs that lead to us to form cults or wage religious wars. We are greedy, ignorant, and self-interested and sometimes do the most atrocious acts against our own environment, even to our own harm. I reassured myself that evil is not a moral thing that exists in some spiritual dimension, but it is simply stupidity and mental illness. After all, many animal species engage in behaviors that seem evil. Observe a gang of primates who tear their neighboring tribe to pieces or look at animals that stupidly eat their own offspring. Religious beliefs may provide comfort and stability, but comfort can be deceptive. A healthy culture, I concluded, should set up guardrails to discourage these delusions. Like taking an antihistamine, societies need to enforce a culture of education and laws to keep their people from destroying themselves with ignorance and delusions.

I believed that if humanity was highly educated and we properly treated mental illness, then nearly all religious beliefs would die off naturally. Spirits are not real, and when one experiences something spiritual, they are just having a mental episode. After much study, I had concluded that religion was nothing more than a complex web of mental lapses, misunderstandings and intentional deceptions. To me, the supernatural or paranormal were nothing more than the brain erroring out, like an artificial intelligence algorithm missing a street stop sign or, perhaps more correctly, seeing a stop sign where one does not exist. Our brains, like a giant artificial intelligence algorithm, were sometimes finding patterns where a pattern does not exist. We just need better training data, that is all.

I was so wrong. And I was about to learn this lesson the hardest way possible when something showed up and pointed me in the last direction I ever wanted to go.



# Chapter 2 - Early Years

I was born in Hutchinson, Kansas, in 1985. When I was around two years old, we moved to the “big city” of Wichita, where I spent my childhood in the Riverside area of town near the Arkansas River. Wichita is exceptionally flat—we used to joke that the highest point in town was the city landfill—and in the 1990s was slow and traditional. Despite encouraging a simple life, Wichita was full of an entrepreneurial spirit. It spawned White Castle, Pizza Hut, and nearly every Boeing 737 fuselage ever created. While not a tourist destination, people who visited Wichita usually commented on how nice everyone was. Kansas has a special charm of calm and humility.

Given that the landscape of Kansas is flat and unexciting, we were forced to be creative from an early age to avoid boredom. The scene in The Wizard of Oz where Dorothy is so overstimulated by her adventures that she cannot wait to get back home to Kansas is accurate. It might have been flat and boring, but it was also quiet, predictable, and secure. There is truly no place like home.

Both my parents had moved to Kansas from Wisconsin, where they had grown up in small towns. My dad’s father, Frederik Jung, graduated from Wheaton College and became a Protestant Christian pastor. My dad’s mother, Lois, grew up the daughter of Christian missionaries in Africa and, when I was a child, would occasionally bust out a story or two from the World War II era of their adventures out on the mission field in Africa. My mom’s dad was known to be a struggling alcoholic who died of cancer when I was a baby. As for my maternal grandmother, Jean, I remember the growing concern among family members that she was becoming more and more a recluse who was exhibiting symptoms of some form of mental illness.

Poverty was a theme in both my parents’ childhoods. My mother grew up in a tiny and poorly insulated house in Wisconsin with eight siblings. They often had little food. Her father worked for the railroad and barely made enough for himself and his wife, let alone their nine kids. The children relied on a massive garden and the occasional poaching of deer, ducks, or whatever game might be roaming the backwoods of Wisconsin. The story goes that my grandfather would often spend money on alcohol, leaving little for the children. However, the eight siblings disagreed over what was most to blame for the situation. My mom’s mom mostly stayed at home with the kids when they weren’t at school but was reported to often be deeply emotionally disturbed. Regardless of the reasons, theirs was an extremely difficult childhood.

My dad’s parents were also poor, although not quite as poor as my mom’s. Grandpa Jung had given up a formal liberal arts education to dedicate his life to God and become a pastor. This decision was apparently such a shock to his successful Freemason father that he was disowned. My grandpa had a near-photographic memory. Funnily enough, one of my aunts said she thought my grandpa was bluffing about his knowledge when she first met him, until he put her suspicion to rest by easily demonstrating his massive knowledge about virtually every topic under the sun by locating it in specific locations in specific books from his library. Both of my dad’s parents supplemented a pastoral income by selling their art. Grandpa Frederik was a black-and-white photographer, and Grandma Lois was an incredible pen-and-ink artist, until she began losing her eyesight and the steadiness of her hands, which forced her to switch to pastels. The two would often travel to shows together to sell their photography and artwork.

Because my grandpa was a loved pastor in my parent’s childhood hometown and my grandmother grew up a child of missionaries in Africa, the default position of everyone in my extended family was conservative Protestant Christian. Anything that helped bolster those beliefs was encouraged.

From my earliest days, I recall having a heightened sense of the spiritual. At the time, I did not realize that my sense of it was unusual. Growing up in conservative Protestant churches, I daily heard about theological topics, about Jesus being sent from heaven to die for our sins, and about his resurrection. We were repeatedly reminded that faith is the only way to salvation, that works could never get us there—like the “lost” Catholics believed. I can remember traveling missionaries telling stories of the devil’s influence in places like Africa and South America through witchcraft. In contrast to these stories, I remember being taught that America was founded as a Christian nation, and the impression I received was that we had advanced past those ancient errors. We were taught that our Christian culture was being attacked more by modern science and postmodernism than by witchcraft or spells. I recall hearing some stories about Ouija boards, haunted houses, and demonic encounters within the United States, but these were rare. As a result, when I began to have spiritual experiences, I felt like a fish out of water.

Despite these experiences, as a child, I had many little intellectual discoveries that laid the groundwork for my later deconversion into atheism.

Like many people, I deeply connected with the epic themes and archetypes of the suffering hero and the villain. So, at an early age, I was drawn into stories like C. S. Lewis’s Chronicles of Narnia and J. R. R. Tolkien’s epic The Lord of the Rings. Of course, it helped that the film adaptation of The Lord of the Rings trilogy was released during my formative years. There was an aura of profound comfort in the idea that the tapestry of our lives might serve a higher purpose if we submitted ourselves to fighting for the good. The allegorical connections between Aslan and Aragorn sacrificing their life for the good just as Jesus did were not lost on me.

I can remember thinking how cool it was that C. S. Lewis could invent the entire world of Narnia, yet I was disappointed that a world like Narnia contained so many elements that were familiar in our world. After all, Narnia had humans and trees and crops and swords, and even the fictitious creatures were just a mix-and-matching of creatures that exist in real life. Put hooves and horns on a human and call it a fawn . This mixing and matching was fun, but was it possible to invent an entire world from scratch?

I tried super hard to think of nothing—an empty space, a void. Try it right now! Think of literally nothing. And then invent a brand-new world that pulls no ideas from our own. When I tried, I immediately thought of an empty planet—and my frustration rose. Planets are not a new thing. So let us try to think of an existence that does not start with a planet. Maybe a giant flat plane? This does not work either, because anything that involves multidimensional space already exists. Any shape we can think about is informed by our experience in this world. I quickly discovered it was impossible to invent a new imaginary world without pulling ideas from our experiences. There is no such thing as a truly new creative invention, because all inventions are a mixing and matching of things and concepts that we engage with in this life. I remember feeling sad at this discovery, but this little mental experiment laid groundwork which would influence me to discard a belief in heaven which I will address in a future chapter.

One experience planted a seed to be less trustful of supernatural reports and would directly tie in to something that would occur nearly twenty years later. When I was maybe ten or so, my family went to Guadalupe Mountains National Park. While there, I remember my dad talking about the nearby town of Roswell and making lighthearted conversation about UFOs and secret government spy planes. Perhaps we would see one!

One night in our giant family tent, I remember my parents waking me and my brothers up with a startle: “Kids, wake up and look out the tent! Look at that star!”

As my eyes adjusted to the light, I saw a hexagon-shaped “star” hovering in the sky. Shining out from it were six equidistant bright flares of light. The star hovered completely silent and still, not moving the tiniest amount.

We watched it for some time, until we realized it was not changing shape or position in the slightest. My parents mused that maybe it was a secret government craft and would return to base at some point. Eventually, we all fell back asleep.

Later, as my dad and I left the tent to walk to the camp bathroom, we looked back up in the sky—and the six-pointed star was gone! But inside the tent, my mom and siblings were saying it was still there. Inside the tent, they could see it and outside we could not.

After some confusion, we deduced that one star in the sky was just the right size so that its light interacted with the space between the tent screen grid in such a way as to produce those outward bands of light – but only from inside the tent. It was such a strange incident, as only one star was the perfect size to produce this effect.

I filed this event away as a valuable lesson: it is quite easy to misinterpret natural things as paranormal. You must always keep looking for better explanations or you might be deceived. If my family had woken up after the sun’s light had hidden that star, we might have been telling a UFO story for the rest of our lives. Instead, we now had a story we rarely spoke about again.

So, I concluded that perhaps all UFO stories are just misinterpretations of other natural phenomena. Maybe other supernatural or paranormal stories were just misunderstandings too? But we knew for sure that the supernatural stories within Christianity were trustworthy! Or were they?

